---
date: "2015-07-11 23:34:28"
excerpt: "Disrupt or be disrupted"
image: /images/kurt.png
layout: post
color: blue
author-link: ""
categories: CaseStudies GitHub process
title: WPC Disruption
author: Dave Mendlen
---

 

Introduction
------------

Today, I’m at [Microsoft’s Worldwide Partner
Conference](<http://news.microsoft.com/wpc2015/>) in Orlando, Florida. When it
comes to talking to our partners, what is top of mind for me is ensuring
Microsoft empowers our partners’ success and profitability through innovation on
our platform.  Today’s sessions focused upon a number of things that partners
should be thinking about to continue driving success.  For my part of today’s
conversation, I focused upon disruption and the transformative opportunities
self-disruption can provide.

In a world where technological and business model changes are accelerating,
finding an opportunity to disrupt – a competitor, an industry or even your own
company – is more achievable than at any point in history.  Over the last
decade, change has come to every facet of life, from the way we exercise with
wearables, to the ways we teach in schools with devices.  Change is ubiquitous. 
Given the rate of change in technology, disruption is no longer an “if”, but a
“when”.  So if disruption is unavoidable, businesses have two choices: be in the
business of disruption – or be disrupted.

Disruption
----------

Jeffrey Immelt, GE’s CEO, nailed it: “We believe that every industrial company
will become a software company.” This means that every industry has already been
disrupted by the necessity of all companies becoming ISVs.  Why?  Because a new
wave of digital upstarts have already embraced the latest capabilities of
technology to drive change, across every industry. From Uber in transportation
to AirBnb in Travel, every industry is seeing new players seeking to capture
revenue and share.

At Microsoft, we are driven by opportunities for disruption.  We’ve seen
multiple waves of disruption come and go - and through these waves we’ve
disrupted, often in conjunction with partners like you. We’ve continued to
evolve, for example, disrupting our Office business from a collection of boxed
products, and then to a business that leveraged a client and server model with
Exchange and SharePoint. 

We have repeated this type of disruption, most recently with Office 365,
continuing the prosperity of the Office franchise. By taking an entrenched
position of leadership, innovating from a position of strength and rebuilding
Office for a world that is Cloud and Mobile first, we’ve continued to grow a
product with an already massive user base. 

Many partners are already well down their own paths to disrupting their ways to
industry leadership.  I shared one of my favorite stories of this kind of
disruption at WPC - it is about connected cows. At Build, Joseph Sirosh talked
about how the internet of things, cloud services, data and analytics make
farmers lives easier in managing herds of cows.  Joseph’s story was just the
first chapter of what is ultimately a story about an [internet of
cows](<http://aka.ms/internet-of-cows>). 

For the latest chapter, a question:  which geography produces the most milk per
cow in the world? Counterintuitively, the answer is Israel. How does a country
that is mostly desert do it?  By taking the idea of an “Internet of Cows” using
Azure on the back end, to connect farmers more directly to their herd. 

The Israeli dairy industry has built technology that collects, analyzes and
shares data on milk quality, quantity, a herd’s health, including rumination
(whether the cow is moving around), temperature and other critical metrics, all
through sensors attached to the cow’s neck.  The data is analyzed and shared to
improve industry-wide productivity.

One of the partners in the dairy industry helping to make this happen is
[SCR](<http://www.scrdairy.com/>). They’ve built
[HealthyCow24](<http://www.scrdairy.com/cow-intelligence/hc24-solution.html>),
which enables farmers to stay connected and in control of the herd from anywhere
– biometric data gets transformed into actionable information a farmer can use,
direct to the smartphone or PC.

[Afimilk](<http://www.afimilk.com/>) is another partner, empowering production
efficiencies through real-time analysis of milk.  Their AfiLab product measures
milk for fat, protein, lactose content and other factors. This analysis is used
to optimize feeding, and to monitor and alert farmers, regarding nutrition. The
device’s online analysis of milk allows screening for health issues and for
raising efficiency.  As it is produced, milk is analyzed, then routed into
drinking milk or cheese vats, as appropriate.

A partner called [AKOL (the Agriculture Knowledge
OnLine)](<http://www.akol4u.com/>), commissioned in 1999 by the Cattle Breeders
Association of Israel, provides a “dairy cloud” service to producers, dairies,
laboratories, and government and regulatory bodies. They’ve enabled a level of
open sharing that’s allowed Israel to innovate to the front of the dairy pack.

There are numerous other examples of disruptors I highlighted at WPC.  From
[Muzik Official](<http://www.muzikofficial.com/>) who are disrupting the music
industry with digital drumsticks that don’t require a physical drum set, to
[Jet](<https://jet.com/>), an upstart looking to take on Amazon in online
retailing, and [Egnyte](<http://www.egnyte.com/>), who are disrupting storage
management, examples of startups disrupting established industries are
everywhere. 
<http://blogs.msdn.com/cfs-file.ashx/__key/communityserver-blogs-components-weblogfiles/00-00-00-91-33/7651.SUs.png>

For growing companies like [SalesForce](<http://www.salesforce.com/>),
partnering with Microsoft ensures that our mutual customers’ CRM systems are
tightly integrated. And even big companies like
[Siemens](<http://www.siemens.com/>) and [Schlumberger](<http://www.slb.com/>)
are disrupting their industries by leveraging the power of innovative devices
and cloud computing to drive efficiencies.  The last example I mentioned at WPC
is Unit4, a company that reinvented its approach to ERP.  By leveraging
Microsoft Azure’s Machine Learning, they’ve built “Self Driving ERP”, ERP
software that knows what you want before you do.

<http://blogs.msdn.com/cfs-file.ashx/__key/communityserver-blogs-components-weblogfiles/00-00-00-91-33/3365.scunsi.png>

Helping partners reinvent themselves to thrive against future challenges is one
of the aspects of my job that makes it so rewarding. Partnering with companies
across the entire company lifecycle, from startups to mature industry leaders,
we get to participate in building the solutions that can disrupt these partners
to future success.

In this pursuit, there are numerous resources Microsoft provides that are
relevant for a company at any phase of the business lifecycle:

-   [Microsoft Partner
    Network](<https://mspartner.microsoft.com/en/us/pages/sales%20and%20marketing/isv/overview.aspx?utm_source=bing&utm_medium=search&utm_campaign=isvmicrosoftbrandphase2-partnerprogram&utm_content=textad4>)
    – It all starts here with MPN.  Become a Microsoft Partner and gain access
    to a broad suite of Microsoft resources.

-   [MSDN](<https://msdn.microsoft.com/>) – Microsoft’s Developer Network offers
    unparalleled access to tools and resources that a developer needs to build
    great software on the Microsoft platform.

-   [Channel 9](<https://channel9.msdn.com/>) – deep technical resources on
    topical subjects from Microsoft’s leading subject matter experts.  If you
    want to see videos of technology in action, this is the place.

-   [Microsoft Virtual Academy](<http://www.microsoftvirtualacademy.com/>) –
    Want to learn more about Microsoft technology in a structured way?  MVA is a
    great resource for providing training on technical subjects to individuals
    and groups.

-   [Microsoft’s Most Valuable Professionals](<http://mvp.microsoft.com/>) –
    MVPs are technical leaders in their communities, bringing subject matter
    expertise on Microsoft technology to the local level.  You won’t find a
    better local resource for answering questions about Microsoft technology.

-   [Events](<http://events.msdn.microsoft.com/>) – We run thousands of events
    every year, in locations across the globe.  If there’s a topic you are
    interested in learning more about, the chance is that there is an event
    coming near you that will bring Microsoft’s subject matter experts to your
    doorstep.

-   Ideation Sessions and Hackfests – For partners who want to discover
    opportunities when building on the latest Microsoft technology, Envisioning
    Sessions bring partners and Microsoft together to explore thee, then
    Hackfests make these opportunities real, through sitting down and building
    solutions with a partner.

-   [Microsoft Ventures and Accelerators](<https://www.microsoftventures.com/>)
    – Ventures is Microsoft’s connection to the venture capital community,
    directly benefitting Microsoft’s startup partners.  Our accelerators and
    partner led accelerators provide mentorship and access to expertise, focused
    upon helping founders grow their businesses.

-   [Microsoft Innovation
    Centers](<https://www.microsoftventures.com/locations/mic>) – With 105 MICs
    worldwide, there’s likely one near you.  MICs provide the facilities and
    resources for students and startups to come together, take advantage of
    unique Microsoft resources and build great businesses or solutions.

-   [BizSpark](<http://www.microsoft.com/bizspark/>) – For startups, the easiest
    way to get access to a robust collection of Microsoft software and services,
    without cost.

-   Marketplaces - enhancing visibility and access to your solutions through
    customer marketplaces for
    [Windows](<http://windows.microsoft.com/en-US/windows-8/apps>),
    [Azure](<http://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/marketplace/>) and
    [Office](<https://pinpoint.microsoft.com/en-US/Home/Office>).

-   Go To Market Support – My team is focused on providing the resources that
    ensure partner success after they go-to-market, not just when they are
    building solutions.

-    

So I’ll leave you with this. Disrupt or be disrupted. If “Disrupt”, let’s
disrupt together.

Guggs
